About the collection The Tiger and The Tiger Rag were newspapers published by the students of Louisiana State University Medical Center. The Tiger, first published on September 19th, 1932, produced 8 volumes of issues from 1932-1940. From 1940 to 1946 it became Journal of the LSU School of Medicine and took a more scholarly approach. Following a brief hiatus, The Tiger Rag was published 1950 to 1993 by the LSU School of Medicine, New Orleans. Individual PDF files of the original newspapers are key-word searchable, or search the collection by subject and select headlines. Select headlines from the newspapers are available in the Excerpted Text field. This collection was created in June 2010. Excerpted from The Tiger Rag v15 n8 (1964-04-25) Then and Now: The Tiger Rag By Gayle Wurzlow The Tiger Rag had its beginning on September 19th, 1932; one year after the medical center was founded by Gov. Huey P. Long. The paper was initially called the Tiger and was a four page weekly publication. The first editor was Henry La Rocca. Students and faculty contributed feature articles, interesting reports, historical medical events, and, as always, jokes. The Tiger Rag is really a weekly record of the history of Medical School and of Medicine itself. Names which we see on plaques today were active participants in school activities in past years. In one of the first The Tiger issues there is a picture of the first Dean, Dr. Vidrine, welcoming the first female students. Techniques and treatment which were currently in use were discussed at length. They were using tannic acid for burns and hemoproteins for ulcers. Even current movies are listed. Did you know that "Duck Soup" with Grocho Marx was the feature attraction at the Saenger in 1932? In 1940, the The Tiger became the Journal of the LSU School of Medicine. This was published in the form of a medical journal, but still retaining current school news. The feature articles were usually written by the students. One article noted in the May, 1947 issue was on the "Use of Estrogens in the Treatment of Spontaneous Menopause" Can you guess its author? Yes, Thomas Hernandez, senior student. On March 17, 1950, the The Tiger Rag officially came into being as such. Also making its debut was the Proctoscoop. Structurally, the The Tiger Rag has not changed much since 1950. However, in looking through these past issues, we note names and faces of students and faculty who were once part of the school, but are now gone. Brief incidents in their lives are recorded here just as ours are being recorded in current The Tiger Rags. Dates and events which have long past, but still effect us today are also recorded here - brief moments in history, our history.